foreign
[Music]
accomplishment where we explore how
deepening connection with ourselves and
others leads to creating the life we
want with enjoyment and ease
hey everybody welcome back
today we have another special guest for
you Mina Lee
Mina is a coach and a facilitator in our
community and she's joining Joe today to
explore the topic of overwhelm I hope
you enjoy it
[Music]
hi Joe
I'm Mina I'm really excited to talk to
you about overwhelm today it feels like
yes it feels like a topic that's so
rampant in society and I just so see so
many clients created for different
reasons and I'm a bit bewildered around
it you know some people create it
because they literally are like if I'm
overwhelmed and if I make a mistake then
I won't be so bad or if I'm overwhelmed
I don't have to deal with all the
in my private life or if I'm overwhelmed
that means I'm working hard and trying
my best you know or even for myself like
if I'm overwhelmed I don't have to feel
the meaninglessness of everything yeah
so I'm super curious today to talk to
you about like what is it what makes us
create it like how do we move through it
individually and as a group in the
collective
so let's dive in I wanna I want to but I
but nobody knows who you are oh well I
mean I guess some people do but I don't
even know who you are
but I I want people to know who you are
because I love I I love you so I want
everyone to know who you are so who are
you what's going on here or can I
introduce you can I introduce you yeah
you haven't you introduce me to mina was
the first person to sign up for the
first course that I ever did and so Mina
has been working with me longer than any
other person consistently which has been
really fun and
has moved into our own coaching practice
and is doing amazing work in the world
and that's amazing but also uh just a
really close family friend my daughter's
absolutely adore you
there is a happening with one of our
daughters just the other day was like I
have a couple extra days can I go up and
see Mina you know and I was thinking to
myself hmm she must have something she
wants to talk about with Mina
and then she tells me about a new
boyfriend and did it as like oh I know
what she wants to talk about so it was
awesome yes and they're they're the
teachers are bringing to all my client
sessions I'm like a nine-year-old told
me which you know she was nine she was
15 she said this and I just feel so
proud as I got to call them like
goddaughter and I'm also super grateful
just the role you play in their life so
on a personal note thank you because it
like the Earth Confidant and trusted and
they look up to you and it's really it's
so it's so beautiful that like
another thing about me is that we got to
travel through China together and you
know you introduced me around and we got
to have all these cool Adventures where
we got to learn and do all sorts of
crazy things together and
um and so I'll say it right I got to
Mentor you in a lot of ways and then to
see you mentoring my girls is just
it's just been awesome
yeah yeah
okay yeah it's been a huge journey of
weaving spirituality in business or
loving and doing with you yeah
which is overwhelmed okay
well I'm leaving of like doing and being
in love and business and all of it
um so the first question what is
overwhelm at its essence
intellectually emotions
I mean it's it's definitely an easy way
to talk about it is a form of fear
it's anxiety
um
but what I would say it's the moment
where you think you have to get out of
flow
to take care of yourself
it's the moment where you think that
or at least it starts it starts there
maybe it isn't that exactly but it
starts there there's this moment where
you're kind of inflow and then
something happens and you think you have
to manage it you think you have to
manage reality what does it mean to be
in flow like in trust in safety yeah
you're like focused and going towards
your goal let's say you're focused
you're relaxed you're going towards your
goal you're in flow
and so you're not
you're not wandering you're not you know
you have a purpose and you're going and
you're and you're going towards it and
you're but you're not stressed about it
you're not you're relaxed and you're
moving and you're going with the river
so to speak and then and then all of a
sudden you want something or something
happens or somebody says something to
you that's scary and all of a sudden you
have to manage reality you have to push
you have to rub roll up River
and that's the beginning of the
overwhelming and that's the beginning of
the fear in the system that's like
that's the first moment so you have to
manage this thing that you can't so
you've already lost
there was this one time when you said
overwhelm is when you don't feel any one
emotion fully yeah so that's the other
that's the other piece of it too which
is overwhelm is not allowing your
we think we're overwhelmed because of x
y and z
um I have a call and then I also have to
get to this place and then but I have a
big job thing and then I know Mike but
what's actually happening on an
emotional level is that there's all
these big emotions and you're not
feeling them and so you're not allowing
them to pass all the way through you and
so your system is
is is overwhelmed with the amount of
emotions that you have and so typically
what I see is when people move through
those emotional states the overwhelm
immediately goes away and fear is kind
of the beginning is not the beginning
but a part of those emotional states
that aren't being felt all the way
through
yeah
yeah and when we're in overwhelm are we
is our nervous system already always in
that fight flight freeze triggered
helpless yeah right yeah our nervous
system is activated and it's it and it's
in that fight fight or fleas freeze
that's right
what do you think makes us create
overwhelm
yeah so there so I I heard you talk
about that and so there's like I I want
to hesitate on that phrase like we
create overwhelm I think there's some
place in the journey where
realizing that you're creating the
overwhelm is healing because it's
empowering and you get to see that you
have a choice and you get to choose to
move beyond that choice
but there's another place in the journey
where if you think I am responsible for
my own overwhelm it just makes you more
overwhelmed it's just one more thing
that you then have to deal with that's
on your plate that you're scared of that
you have to manage and so it depends on
where somebody is in the journey
um is is where the the usefulness of
that feeling of oh I'm creating the
overwhelm I'm responsible for it right
and I don't think you can see it you
can't
until you you're not responsible to it
for it until you can see that you're
responsible for it if that makes any
sense once you can see it then you have
choice but before then you don't so
so there's kind of an odd thing to that
and how do we get to see it and how how
do we get to see
oh I'm creating this to avoid this or
this right because I've mapped this
versus oh yeah I just had multiple
people in my life die I'm feeling
overwhelmed this is systemic so how do
we
see through
like when there's great self-compassion
and maybe whenever we want to inquire
more into how it's not serving us so
I don't it doesn't matter to me if
you're in the in a war zone or if you're
in a multiple people in your life just
died
the overwhelm always has an external
component to it and it always has the
internal component of not being able to
process those feelings
um at a time that's in a time that the
system needs it to do so it's not
overwhelmed so
I'll give you for instance so uh we as
you know both of our daughters went into
hospital when they were really young
with pretty serious issues and in both
cases I was not processing the emotional
experience I was handling doctors I was
making sure food was you know and and
Tara was in that particular case really
able to handle like emotionally process
those things
and I think it was like day seven or ten
of the first one where I was just like
okay I'm completely overwhelmed I have
to go and be emotional and do that thing
where Tara could
continue to kind of process the emotions
and it more in real time not entirely in
real time but more in real time so she
had a more steady state that was going
through that
so there's always this external peace to
it and and so there's always a chance to
look inside and say okay
how what needs to be processed what is
it that I'm I'm I'm
dealing with so in the case of those
deaths like yeah there's some of them
there's some big emotions there's grief
grieve have that experience it's going
to heal you it's going to help move your
identity it doesn't matter how big it is
outside or or whether it's a war
you know Walt Whitman as an example
E Cummings both had Awakenings and more
I would I would argue by reading their
poetry and
um
and so it's like it doesn't really
matter if you're feeling overwhelmed
There's an opportunity to allow yourself
to feel something and process it and
because anything
that you can't process in real time
typically means that there's some more
resistance to it that can still be let
go so it doesn't really matter
so let's say someone reckoned they're at
that first moment of recognizing oh I'm
feeling overwhelmed how would you then
recommend or go through or walk them
through that process of then inquiry and
unraveling yeah
so it depends on the context it's a
great question so one context is I don't
have space in this moment and I do mean
Moment Like This Week doesn't doesn't
register but in this moment
so then the best thing to do is learn
like really great breath exercises
there's ways of breathing that can
immediately
you know enjoy breath or there's
different ways to talk about it like
slowing down your breath making it equal
I mean it doesn't matter whether it's
yoga or whether it's the Navy Seals like
teaching people about breath and how it
calms the nervous system the the quote I
heard recently which I loved which is
like we can't control our nervous system
but we can control our breath and our
breath controls our nervous system
and so
so if you can't deal with it in the
moment you can breathe the issue with
that is that a lot of people will use
that breath to then
oppress
repress the emotions like okay I'm just
gonna keep on breathing and then I'm
never going to feel that and that can be
a world of hurt
so in some cases you're in a business
meeting you know you're you're in a
hospital you got just the breath can
immediately regulate the system out of
overwhelm
than otherwise
then the
but once you have the space and you're
feeling these emotions it's it's the
best thing to do is like look at what's
the thing that you don't want to have
happen remember feel that
so usually when there's overwhelm
there's a false end just like in fear
there's a false end and you're scared of
the emotional result of that false end
so oh my God if I don't get this job
done my boss is going to be mad at me
okay so that's that's the moment the
okay so feel through grieve allow
yourself to have the full emotional
process of having your Moss your boss
mad at you don't don't I'm not
suggesting don't finish your work and
have your boss mad at you though that
might be fine
I'm suggesting live in that reality
feel all that experience allow it to
move through you so that you know you
can survive it and you're not scared of
it anymore
and then that can do it and that usually
that'll come with
like in the case of oh my boss will be
mad at me it's going to go beyond your
boss mad at you it's your mom or dad who
were mad at you it was the critical
parent who wanted you to the person who
taught you that you had to be productive
to be loved etc etc etc
you know how when we coach someone like
a lot of our role as a whole that really
stable nervous system so they can
explore these topics safely yeah so what
if they're in that state of overwhelm
they're by themselves
how do they they do that breathing
what's the next question the next thing
when they're already overwhelmed and
they don't have somebody else too or
something else to stabilize like even
when we find out in Sessions hey you're
creating overwhelm you're creating
problems that feel really urgent so that
you can feel needed like they get to
that after a process of discovery but
how could someone who just notices
they're overwhelmed
yeah
so there's I think there's so there's so
many things that you said in that the
first one is that you know that that job
of us to hold that really nervous
nervous that very stable nervous system
yes sometimes that is our job and
um
and I would so there's something I don't
want
um any coaches listening to this to
think that that's like a requirement and
or something that should be done all the
time and then the second part is
uh so if you're if you're looking for
the intellectual Discovery the emotions
will bring it rather than trying to have
the intellectual Discovery and then
that's going to allow for the emotions
so
if you feel the thing that you don't
want to have happen and ha and live
through that in a very slow way that you
can have all those emotional experiences
it'll become really clear to you what's
creating the overwhelm
right it's like oh I create the
overwhelm so I don't have to feel the
um the absence of my parents love for
who I was because it was only for what I
did
you know and so you'll get to that
naturally if you allow the emotional
experience
um what I notice is that intellectually
people can come to that experience of
you know they might get it explained to
them or they might find out some way
like oh I am
I am overwhelmed right now because I
want to feel alive or I am overwhelmed
right now because
um because I didn't I want my dad's love
and I never got it Etc like they can
have those things but that can only can
sometimes just cause weight it's like oh
this is just about my dad's love
and now I'm still chasing it and oh
I'm like I can't get rid of it and what
you know why it's been 10 years I'm
still chasing my dad's Love by trying to
please my boss you know like they so
that is a bit of a slippery slope
whereas if they actually have the
emotional experience and invite it and
welcome it the same way that you would
do if you were
um
the same way you would do it as if you
were uh
like the Tibetan book of living and
dying or the samurai like visualizing
your own death like slowly through all
those moments and visualizing your dad
getting angry at you or your boss
getting angry at you slowly getting
fired all that will really allow you to
have that emotional experience and then
it becomes really clear on the other
side the intellectual reasons for it
yeah so I'm overwhelmed I'm scared when
am I scared of feeling let's feel that
together yeah what am I scared of
feeling what's the result for some
people the what am I scared of feeling
is hard so it's what am I scared of
happening and what would I have to feel
if that happened is easier because it's
pretty con it's really easy for someone
to identify
oh
I'm scared I'm gonna get fired I'm
scared that I'm gonna be left I'm scared
that somebody will get mad at me
that those are easier to identify than
the emotions
so that's that's the main thing and also
to know that I think the other thing
that happens in that is that people
think that the overwhelm is productive
most people in our society go oh when
I'm overwhelmed I'm productive so it's
good like I've seen I've seen bosses say
oh like I'm I'm gonna put some fear into
people because they'll I they'll they'll
work harder they'll act better they'll
make better decisions there is no
psychological evidence of that at all
now obviously a little bit of like
urgency can be helpful but not any kind
of prolonged fear it it reduces our
capacity to think it reduces how
quickly things get done it it reduces
our accuracy it reduces our capacity to
learn so anxiety is really detrimental
to productivity the weird thing is it's
a bit of a
um it's a bit of a mental illusion
that we often think we're getting more
done when we're overwhelmed right so you
know and it and it's a little bit like
I've seen I saw footage of a
tiger
or it was a lion who hadn't eaten in a
long time and like and they couldn't
sleep and they were like up constantly
looking for food and and you could see
their nervous system was all tweaked and
and I like they're probably thinking
they're being more productive but they
are clearly not as good of a hunter as
the one that's relaxed and
you know licking themselves and hanging
out in the sun and so it's the same
thing our minds often trick us into
thinking we're more productive when
we're overwhelmed
for the people who are listening what
are some somatic markers to tell when
they are just in a healthy level of
tension and normal level of stress
versus when they're in a state of
overwhelm that isn't necessarily helping
like what are some somatic markers to
tell yeah
um
well I want to say that somatically and
I think some for some people
intellectually is better markers than
some people somatically as better
markers so any of the fear markers like
um for intellectually like uh
um
black and white thinking binary thinking
false ends
um
uh
those are all thinking you have to make
a decision having some sense of urgency
over a decision that's false urgency
those are all
those are all markers intellectually
somatically there's often a feeling of
pushing
I have to I have to Gotta Get Right like
there's like this
pushing that happens I think that's a
really big somatic marker the other one
is that you
intellectually antimatically like you're
more likely to forget stuff right like
when you're leaving the house
you're less likely and you're calm and
you're relaxed you're less likely to
leave the keys
if you're overwhelmed you're more likely
to have to come back into the house
several times the Marines have this
great
sayings slowest steady slowest steady
steady is fast
and and it's like so that feeling of
Rush is often very much an overwhelm but
it's interesting because you'll see
people do this when they start to get
interested in this they're they're like
oh my God I'm rushing therefore I must
be overwhelmed and they're like no no
but I've got a good reason to rush
because if I don't blah blah blah blah
blah blah
and that's like that's a gold mine for
self recognition all those
are all the you know
the reason and and and then to also say
okay what made it that I didn't set up
my world so that I didn't have to rush
right so I'll give you an example oh my
God yeah but I have to rush because if I
don't rush then I'm gonna be late for
this job interview right so the first
question is is that true like is it
better to call the job interview place
and say hey I hit traffic I'm going to
be five minutes late or is it better to
come in all overwhelmed so that
first of all so that's and we don't
question that and so if you can look at
that and say what made me think that it
was better to rush and be there frazzled
what's that feeling what's going on
there there's going to be a lot of juice
there and then there's also what made it
that I've set up a situation where I
wasn't
you know I didn't give myself an extra
15 minutes to this big job interview
what what made me create that level of
anxiety and so those are all like
fertile ground mm-hmm
yeah I noticing myself like sometimes
this sense of panic quickening of tempo
and then also the eyeballs literally
like are going left right so much faster
like they can't like hold the steady
gives them like wow they're really
overwhelmed it's exactly what was
happening with the lion
it was like they were like yeah yeah
right whereas like most cats when
they're hunting they're like super slow
and they're and this thing was like me
like it was buzzing yeah yeah
so let's move into organizational too
because one thing I'm fascinated by is
when an individual change how that
change ripples into larger systems yeah
so how does let's say a CEO leader
they're doing the work they're like I'm
trying to regulate my nervous system I'm
trying to not create so much overwhelm
in my life but they're interfacing with
an organization where overwhelm has been
empirical and is rampant in the culture
itself and let's say they're in a larger
culture social culture or capitalist
culture which also
how does one who's just that one
interact with that resistance to let's
say even shifting because yeah everybody
also has their own thing with overwhelms
how does that one person start to shift
an entire organization so I think the
the first thing is they have to be clear
on it in themselves I think if
somebody's become a CEO of a successful
company when they're clear on it
themselves they'll be the company will
be clear on it and
I'll just give you an example of this
which is you know there's so many
examples of this but apparently like
Bill Gates used to take uh one week to
go be by himself in a cabin every
quarter
as a way of you know getting back to
whatever you could call it a center I'm
sure he had a different word for it but
to get out of the overwhelm to get to
the greater Vision to think about things
um you know Greenspan
um spent the first 30 minutes of every
day in contemplation
um if you talked to Jeff Bezos right
before he quit
um being the CEO he talked about
I gotta I wander until ten o'clock it
works out whatever he wanders until 10
o'clock he only makes decisions from ten
to five because his whole job is to make
good decisions that's all his job is it
doesn't do anything after five like so I
just want to say that there are multiple
people who've been very successful who
have figured out that this is true that
their overwhelmed doesn't serve
and doesn't serve their company and
doesn't serve them and
and then some of those even see it
inside of a inside of the company that
it doesn't serve the entire company
and I think some of them don't some of
them are like yeah I'm the decision
maker so I can't be overwhelmed but
the line worker putting the widgets on
the bigger widgets they should be
overwhelmed because that's going to
improve and some people realize no
actually that actually doesn't improve
you make more errors you have more you
know recalls there's
a whole bunch of other issues that if
you can actually like there is a a pace
of getting things done that is optimal
for every
for every um
for every project so I'm gonna play The
Devil's Advocate for a second and like
yeah those stable companies that's easy
they already have so much money and
let's say we're starting you know we're
trying to survive we have to get Beyond
this first customer everything is urgent
literally like what would what would you
say to that
I would say
um I don't want to buy from that
attitude
and I sure as hell don't want to invest
money in that attitude
that's what I would say
yeah and and your people are burning out
probably
or they will shortly
you know I think it'd be a harder thing
to say to like somebody who's the harder
one is something where it's like and
with with something like a startup it's
easier to say that because you are
making decisions and you have to get
things done and they're thoughtful
things and
you so you're really trying to maximize
your decision making it becomes a harder
thing to say for a company that's
you know I have
20 people who are out mowing lawns and
if they move just a little bit quicker
then I'm gonna make an extra 500 you
know a day so move quicker I think
that's the actually the harder place to
see that how slowness can can be more
profitable
you know then then you're looking at and
then it can depend on the kind of
business you know I mean I think the
Reinventing organization's book had a
great
thing about this with nurses where
this nursing
uh establishment that in I think it was
Netherlands
all the nurses had been they have
Community nurses they're supposed to
take care of x amount of blocks of city
and
and they were getting okay you have 20
minutes to drive and you have 10 minutes
to give him the shot and blah blah blah
and
and it was all becoming nickel and dime
and became Tighter and Tighter and it
was all driving efficiency and some guy
came in and said FBS that's not how
we're going to do it we're going to stop
and we're going to have coffee with
these folks and we're going to find out
what they need to be independent and and
that's going to be our priority it's not
going to be how quickly we serve them
we're it's going to be how do we get it
so that we don't have to serve them and
he took over the market and he took over
the market partially because nurses want
to work for him and didn't want to work
for anybody else so bada bing but the
but the second bar they took over the
market is they became I think it was
like 20 or 30 more efficient and so
if you're constantly worried about that
you know half a cent margin you're gonna
miss the major opportunity and so then
that's that's another thing so so
there's a lot of
reasons but it it's more about don't
trust me if you're a CEO like
measure find out what's the right pace
for this particular Pro what's the right
pace what's the race incentives do the
experiments find out if I'm writing a
novel
most great novelists work about three
hours a day
they can't write
10 hours a day every day and be
successful they don't you know they they
either burn out or their writing becomes
crap or whatever it is
programming you know probably you can do
for more than three hours a day and so
and sales you know there's a certain
level of sales that you can do and still
be productive and the job is to find out
what that level is and what's the
mindset that is instead of assuming
overwhelm is it and that's the crazy
thing is it's all based on assumption so
if you're listening to this and you
believe in your overwhelm it's an
assumption you have not tested it I
guarantee you haven't tested it
I guess that goes to back to the first
and third which is like how does
so CEO realizes it they've decided
they've gotten clear on it they're like
I want to do this in my organization
yeah let's say they have hundreds to
thousands of people who are used to
years of working in overwhelm yeah
how do you concretely begin to and you
can't you can't change what's going on
in their private lives stuff that
contributes to their own overwhelm
absolutely or their own pattern around
overwhelm you know creating overwhelming
work too yeah better feel blank how do
you begin to
shift that momentum in that system so
many ways but then I mean I'm depending
on the company I would have a lot of
answers but the I give you the generic
Baseline that I would start with the
first thing I would do is I would
try to measure how overwhelmed actually
people are and this will be everything
from attrition rate of good people
attrition rate of bad people to asking
them you know open-ended question about
it or a good survey can tell you like
are you looking forward to coming to
work on Monday probably is a pretty good
indication of overwhelm so I would I
would first just find out I would Define
the problem and find out really what the
problem is
and then I would try to find out what it
is that's overwhelming them I think most
of the time people are overwhelmed in
companies if it's not just kind of their
innate pattern is because they feel like
they have the responsibility but they
don't have the authority to actually
make it work
and so it starts with overwhelming ends
with despondency
and so I would really be looking really
carefully at you know where the decision
making is happening and how people feel
the other the other place I would go is
I would look for
um how the productivity I would start
trying
like if there's some place where I know
this product activity is X I would say
let's change the speed right so there's
a there was a company I was reading
about I can't remember the name but they
were stand up paddle board company but
the CEO very brilliantly said we're an
online marketing company that happens to
Market paddle boards and um but he took
his company to 30 hours a week
like you could you couldn't really work
over 30 hours a week it was looked down
upon and his
productivity and his sales went up
consistently more than his competition
and so he was out there advocating for
the 30-hour work week and
I and and but for me the bigger thing is
like oh he was
driving flow in his company
and that's so I would think about it
less as how do I drive how do I reduce
overwhelm and I would think of it more
as how do I drive flow
how do I have people calm relaxed
focused on game
right and and and that amount of tension
rather the kind of tension that takes
them out of their game that makes them
run back for the keys that makes them
you know second-guess themselves that
makes them oh my God I gotta talk to my
boss because my boss is unhappy then
instead of just making the call that you
know going up six levels of asking
people for approval
so those are the things and then there's
going to be attrition there's going to
be some people in your company who
that they are overwhelmed by their
nature and and aren't willing to do the
work to become less overwhelmed and so
you're going to have to find those folks
and get rid of them
and and help them find a hopefully help
them find a place where you know it's a
better fit
so those are some of the things that I
would do and
mostly I would talk to people and ask
them
what's the overwhelm how do we reduce it
because reduction of overwhelm
needs is like it's a team sport so it's
not going to come down through a policy
it's going to come come with a
discussion of like
like I would open a channel on slack
that says reduction of overwhelm as an
example and say oh
I'm seeing that overwhelm is doing this
and this and this hey everybody give me
ideas on how we can reduce overwhelming
the company overwhelm is defined as
spinning
being non-productive in our spend being
non-relaxed you know this it overwhelm
is not defined as
slacking off or wandering or you know so
I would be really clear about the
definition I'd really be really clear
what it isn't and then I would ask
everybody for ways that we could do it
examples of how people have been
overwhelmed and that would be part of
the cultural experience
sometimes I see teams that are so
overwhelmed that their the helplessness
is really loud and they're in a freeze
around the overwhelm itself and it's
like when we go into the conversation
like the prefrontal cortex literally
like can't come up they're just like bro
don't know what to do and there's like a
sense of collective freeze in it of
itself you know yeah so when they're in
that place where they can't they're not
even here to ideate what would you
suggest
give them a break
[Laughter]
get him out of the office
yeah if they can't if they can't if they
can't what you're basically saying
they're so overwhelmed they can't think
so now maybe you don't need them to
think if they're cutting Lawns or
picking apples
um but you need them to think for most
modern jobs
and so you why even have them there
unless they you know unless they can
think I'm like right now for instance I
I is a great example I go into companies
and oftentimes the I'll go in with you
know the CEO has invited me in and their
EA will be the one communicating I've
found this space and we're going to do
it here and blah blah blah
and some of the EAS do that in
you know three emails less than five
senses each and some some EAS do it with
20 emails and each one of them are like
small novels
and I can tell you who's overwhelmed
just by that
right because they're trying to make
sure everything's right and catching
every little piece and da da it's like
oh you're overwhelmed and the other ones
are like oh what's the like they see the
least
that's required to do an excellent job
is there ever overwhelmed without fear
it's a great question
no no you're at the very least you're
scared of feeling the feelings that are
coming up
the last part of that though is just
just because that's there it doesn't
mean if you feel your fear the overwhelm
goes away though meaning that they're
they're sometimes needs to be a lot of
other things that are moved and
sometimes moving the other things make
takes the fear away
so I just don't want to be able to think
like oh I'm overwhelmed therefore I'll
feel fear the the question is I'm
overwhelmed how do I feel safe
that's the more accurate
question is it's like it's overwhelm is
a sign that you don't feel safe
um
inside of yourself or outside of
yourself and and and and
there is knowing yourself is the only
safety
there's no amount of money that can make
you feel safe there's no lover that can
make you feel safe there's no
there's no car or or vaccination that
can make you feel safe the the only
thing that can make you feel safe is is
is
knowing yourself feeling safe inside of
yourself knowing that you have a home to
go to at any time
that's what can make you feel safe
because then all the bad things that can
happen are not relevant
they're like yes they're there and they
could happen and
yeah
yeah you know when I go through the
emotional movement there's all I realize
that it gives me clarity about what
needs to be done but oftentimes there's
like some boundary or something you need
to stop doing or just
um yeah some way in which I'm not taking
responsibility for
for it and then typically when the
action comes I'm like oh so that's this
is the third part that I want to talk
about transforming the overwhelm it's
like the gift on the other side
of the overwhelm
um
like for example if we see Ukraine and
then I want to talk really personal but
like for example in like the entire
country you could say is overwhelmed and
I see everything that I read long form
articles the journalism is like so many
people are coming out and activated and
doing something and there's a huge sense
of community and and tying together
yeah and so it's like what
differentiates when you know we feel
overwhelmed and we're it turns into this
empowered sense of community or
you know that's one example for them you
know with with even your daughter like
her story around oh let's just put it
right against Russia yeah I'm sure that
those Russian soldiers feel very
overwhelmed
right and it's not building anything
there's no it's just disintegrating
stuff yeah
right
so how like what you know what
determines when we as humans move
through one
versus the other and in the Ukraine
situation you know there's a common
enemy so I can see how that all has
always United people but in business and
family when there's that lack of common
enemy it's almost like we make each
other the enemy
yeah
it's the meaning that you make of it
that's why I was so at the very
beginning I was so precise about
it's like I'm not you know me and the
fact that I'm not like very
conscientious about like the way that I
look or you know the way the website
looks I'm not like okay that's the wrong
font I'm not but I'm really precise
about this kind of thing because it
and conscientious about this type of
thing because it makes such a huge
difference if somebody makes the meaning
of it
um I'm bad or they're bad
in the overwhelm then it's going to be
destructive and if somebody makes the
meaning of it oh I have an opportunity
here's a great way for me to
change this is something for me to learn
there's you know there's a way for me to
understand myself better I look forward
to my overwhelm men if you make that
meaning of it it's far more likely to be
productive
and so it's really about the meaning
that you make of it and so that's why
for some people it's really important
that the meaning is I am
I I'm empowered and this is something
that I created
but if they're blaming themselves
then it doesn't then this is something I
created becomes just more overwhelming
and so that's that specifically so it's
it's how you make the meaning of it in
the Ukraine Russia thing the the meaning
in Ukraine is that we want to survive we
can survive and we are going to beat off
this enemy
and in the Russian the meaning is this
is a stupid War why are we here we're
just fodder
and and yeah we're getting treated like
so we're gonna treat everything
around us like
and so it just it's what it's the
meaning that you make up the overwhelm
and that's where the choice is
yeah yeah that's where I want to end us
on a few stories yeah of where you've
really seen breakthrough ways of where
people have made meaning it's really
served I love to hear one story where
you've done it in a business I love to
share it as my story I know she's open
to the the overwhelm with the math test
and how that led to so much yeah share
share it let me start with that one and
I want to hear one from me Pete too so
we can really end on a personal like
personal transformation around the
overwhelm so um so one of Joe's
daughters Esme she she had told me you
know doing the math finals was always
challenging and difficult for her
and it would always take her a really
long time and she would come out with
the grade that she didn't necessarily
like
and I remember this past year when she
was about to go into the math final she
they lost she lost the family dog like
the night before and you and Tara her
parents were on a retreat with us so
there was no parent home her with her
little sister about to take a math final
the dog was lost her younger sister was
freaking out feeling maybe partially
responsible for the dog I mean it was
like complete and intense challenging
overwhelmed yeah challenging and she
told me you know she went in and she was
feeling so overwhelmed to a point where
she was just like oh
I have to just let go of everything that
I can't control because it's too much
I'm trying to control everything and
that all that's left is just trusting
myself showing up as I am knowing that
I'm enough
and that's it and it gave her incredible
focus and she left the the math exam an
hour and a half early with the best
grade she'd ever gotten
like surrendering to that overwhelm
actually gave her
Focus trust in herself not trying to
control what she couldn't and I was just
wow I was like wow
yeah yeah that's a great story
yeah
um a business one I think I could create
a business one and one between you and
me in the same situation I and it's
going to be almost an opposite
um one we were sitting
there we were in China and we were
visiting that group of people who had
like figured out how to like build a
50-story building in like whatever it
was three days or something because they
had this special kind of Lego set on an
industrial size and
we were sitting in there like side
office and about a media conversation
and
um
and there's a way in which you weren't
being
respected or honored and you weren't
speaking up in a way like they were it
was like oh this is the conversation
between like the people who know
something and
and
I said that that was unacceptable and
you were we were having coffee
afterwards and you're like why is that
unexpectable and I was like oh because
I'm here for you I'm not here for this
business meeting like that I'm here for
your growth and
and you got overwhelmed in that moment
because and because you were scared to
let that much love in
that was huge we're really just looking
out yeah I remember that and you were
like yeah it's just not the most
important thing you're the most
important thing and you're about to say
your next sentence and I just burst out
crying and it was like like loud and you
looked at me like so surprised you're
like what is happening what just
happened was
and I was like yeah I've just never been
loved like that that I was more
important than the content the
PowerPoint the slides or the business
that was happening
yeah and that that's a moment of that
overwhelm occurred you actually allowed
the emotions to move through
really quite rapidly there was that fear
of being loved that level and then you
moved right through it and then
we entered a flow state in our the rest
of our China travels together where we
just were like everything was just went
beautifully and smoothly and wonderfully
and so that's I give that as an example
of how to handle the overwhelm in such a
way they can immediately change I mean
from that point on every conversation we
had with anybody turned into like
somebody crying somebody having a
realization somebody somebody going holy
crap out on the floor of that like
five-star restaurant in Beijing because
you kept apologizing and you were like
if you apologize to me one more time I'm
gonna beg you beg you and you said you
got on the floor of that like fancy Duck
Restaurant and back to her she almost
cried just to get you off the floor and
she never said I'm sorry again
oh I forgot about that one yeah and it
just like then that big smooth and you
know all of those contacts that we met
then paid off for you and future
endeavors and like it's just that's
that's how it works if you can move
through the overwhelm instead of
tightening down
feel the feelings and then all of a
sudden that flow State comes in again
and that's that's the example I would
say is there any last story you want to
share maybe from your own experience
around overwhelm and how
transformative my own experience
um
there's this recently there's been this
thing happening inside of my system
where
I've been noticing how much the pushing
creates like the subtle overwhelm so I
see something that needs to be done in
the business
and
if I
turn towards it and I
do it or I'm very clear oh this needs to
get done
then it just kind of flows everything
happens and it seems like it happens
slower but it ends up happening
happening a lot quicker as soon as I
push oh my God we have to get this done
and I'm and I manage it
I notice that
I lose myself in the process
that's one thing I noticed that I start
moving at a quicker Pace it's another
thing
and I notice that my enjoyment goes down
and I notice I I'm like at the end of
that day I'm like oh I just need a break
whereas if I immediately catch that
moment of push and say oh what's what's
actually needed here and
and how do I get back into myself and
not go into the management of a
situation everything just seem slower my
impatience walks in and it's like wait
wait wait so
the other day there's a decision that
needs to be made in the business like
what are we going to do next year and
because we have to buy
or rent facilities and every all the
facilities get rented early you got to
make these decisions really early to do
any kind of event and so I'm like oh we
have to do this event and
and I'm some I noticed I was pushing I
was like okay like I got to get this
thing done
and I thought oh how about if I ask the
slowness what it wants to do like it's
like because part of the reason I want
it the part of the the it's a little
confusing but part of the decision that
I was making was trying to figure out
how do I not be overwhelmed in my next
year so it's it's easy to do that for me
if it's like if it's like oh I don't
want to do that right now but if you
have whatever fifty thousand dollars on
a rental place for something and then
you have 20 people coming or 50 people
coming you can't say oh I don't want to
do that I feel overwhelmed like you you
need to show up and be there for people
and then you're making this decision
like you know a year in advance so
you'll have no idea how you're going to
feel and so it's like where so I was
like well I'm asking for my intellect
what if I ask from my slowness what if I
just go to the part of me that is that
knows that stability and calmness and
ask that like oh what do I want to do
and so I did
I can't wait for the answer
and the answer was more will be revealed
what did I expect to ask slowness like
to ask slowness like well what's the
answer it's like well this is the answer
and go do that right now it was no
slowness was like it was like yeah you
know just relax it'll come to you you
know more will be revealed you're fine
what was the decision then
that decision hasn't been made yet
more literally way to make the decision
more will be revealed it was just it
wasn't way to make a decision what the
answer that came was more will be
revealed and so I was just like oh right
I am pushing to make this decision and
it's and the wisdom is don't push to
make it
it'll like stay focused be on point but
don't don't force to make the decision
and if I look
back in my world like the more I have
forced
Force the situation to make a decision
usually the worst the decision
so
I'm I am operating so that's a that's an
example of of oh yeah this is silly
example but a good one just happened
you guys can't see but she's laughing
hopefully at me a little bit
yeah that was right that with as all of
you
Mina what a total total total pleasure
oh I'm so glad that we finally got to do
this I wanted it for a while me too yeah
okay
[Music]
foreign
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]